README.md, before:


# Traefik Ondemand Plugin


Traefik middleware to start containers on demand.

![Github Actions](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/acouvreur/traefik-ondemand-plugin/Build?style=flat-square)
![Go Report](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/acouvreur/traefik-ondemand-plugin?style=flat-square)
![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/acouvreur/traefik-ondemand-plugin?style=flat-square)
![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/acouvreur/traefik-ondemand-plugin/all.svg?style=flat-square)

## Features

- Support for **Docker** containers
- Support for **Docker swarm** mode, scale services
- Support for **Kubernetes** Deployments and Statefulsets
- Start your container/service on the first request
- Automatic **scale to zero** after configured timeout upon last request the service received
- Dynamic loading page (cloudflare or grafana cloud style)

![Demo](./img/ondemand.gif)
## Usage

### Plugin configuration

```yml
testData:
  serviceUrl: http://ondemand:10000
  name: TRAEFIK_HACKATHON_whoami
  timeout: 1m
```

| Parameter    | Type            | Example                    | Description                                                             |
| ------------ | --------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `serviceUrl` | `string`        | `http://ondemand:10000`    | The docker container name, or the swarm service name                    |
| `name`       | `string`        | `TRAEFIK_HACKATHON_whoami` | The container/service to be stopped (docker ps                          | docker service ls) |
| `timeout`    | `time.Duration` | `1m30s`                    | The duration after which the container/service will be scaled down to 0 |

### Traefik-Ondemand-Service

The [traefik-ondemand-service](https://github.com/acouvreur/traefik-ondemand-service) must be used to bypass [Yaegi](https://github.com/traefik/yaegi) limitations.

Yaegi is the interpreter used by Traefik to load plugin and run them at runtime.

The docker library that interacts with the docker deamon uses `unsafe` which must be specified when instanciating Yaegi. Traefik doesn't, and probably never will by default.

## Examples

- [Docker Classic](./examples/docker_classic/)
- [Docker Swarm](./examples/docker_swarm/)
- [Multiple Containers](./examples/multiple_containers/)
- [Kubernetes](./examples/kubernetes/)

## Authors

[Alexis Couvreur](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexis-couvreur/) (left)
[Alexandre Hiltcher](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexandre-hiltcher/) (middle)
[Matthias Schneider](https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthias-schneider-18831baa/) (right)

![Alexandre, Alexis and Matthias](./img/gophers-traefik.png)

Commit message:

feat: add custom loading page (#15)
* add option for custom loading and error pages
* document custom landing pages
* link to example templates
* update loading page template to match template actually in-use

README.md, after:


# Traefik Ondemand Plugin


Traefik middleware to start containers on demand.

![Github Actions](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/acouvreur/traefik-ondemand-plugin/Build?style=flat-square)
![Go Report](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/acouvreur/traefik-ondemand-plugin?style=flat-square)
![Go Version](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/acouvreur/traefik-ondemand-plugin?style=flat-square)
![Latest Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/acouvreur/traefik-ondemand-plugin/all.svg?style=flat-square)

## Features

- Support for **Docker** containers
- Support for **Docker swarm** mode, scale services
- Support for **Kubernetes** Deployments and Statefulsets
- Start your container/service on the first request
- Automatic **scale to zero** after configured timeout upon last request the service received
- Dynamic loading page (cloudflare or grafana cloud style)

![Demo](./img/ondemand.gif)
## Usage

### Plugin configuration

**Custom loading/error pages**
The `loadingpage` and `errorpage` keys in the plugin configuration can be used to override the default loading and error pages. The value should be a path where a template that can be parsed by Go's [html/template](https://pkg.go.dev/html/template) package can be found in the Traefik container. An example of both a loading page and an error page template can be found in the [pkg/pages/](pkg/pages/) directory in [loading.html](pkg/pages/loading.html) and [error.html](pkg/pages/error.html) respectively. The plugin will default to the built-in loading and error pages if these fields are omitted.

**Example Configuration**
```yml
testData:
  serviceUrl: http://ondemand:10000
  name: TRAEFIK_HACKATHON_whoami
  timeout: 1m
  loadingpage: /opt/on-demand/loading.html
  errorpage: /opt/on-demand/error.html
```

| Parameter    | Type            | Example                       | Description                                                             |
| ------------ | --------------- | --------------------------    | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `serviceUrl` | `string`        | `http://ondemand:10000`       | The docker container name, or the swarm service name                    |
| `name`       | `string`        | `TRAEFIK_HACKATHON_whoami`    | The container/service to be stopped (docker ps                          | docker service ls) |
| `timeout`    | `time.Duration` | `1m30s`                       | The duration after which the container/service will be scaled down to 0 |
| `loadingpage`| `string`        | `/opt/on-demand/loading.html` | The path in the traefik container for the loading page template         |
| `errorpage`  | `string`        | `/opt/on-demand/error.html`   | The path in the traefik container for the error page template           |

### Traefik-Ondemand-Service

The [traefik-ondemand-service](https://github.com/acouvreur/traefik-ondemand-service) must be used to bypass [Yaegi](https://github.com/traefik/yaegi) limitations.

Yaegi is the interpreter used by Traefik to load plugin and run them at runtime.

The docker library that interacts with the docker deamon uses `unsafe` which must be specified when instanciating Yaegi. Traefik doesn't, and probably never will by default.

## Examples

- [Docker Classic](./examples/docker_classic/)
- [Docker Swarm](./examples/docker_swarm/)
- [Multiple Containers](./examples/multiple_containers/)
- [Kubernetes](./examples/kubernetes/)

## Authors

[Alexis Couvreur](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexis-couvreur/) (left)
[Alexandre Hiltcher](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexandre-hiltcher/) (middle)
[Matthias Schneider](https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthias-schneider-18831baa/) (right)

![Alexandre, Alexis and Matthias](./img/gophers-traefik.png)
